In the previous section we talked about the fuzzy world of RESTful Web Services.
with MicroServices things get even more fuzzier.
There is no one accepted definition of MicroServices.
So definitions vary from a smaller one like this which is it's a small autonomous services that work
together.
to very long definitions.
This is the definition which was given by Martin Fowler and Jim Lewis.
I mean this is like a 10 line definition on its own.
It says it's a style to develop a single application as a suite of small services each running its own
process communicating with very lightweight mechanisms.
Things like HTTP and these services are built around business capabilities independently deployable by
automated deployment.
And there is a set of centralized management for these services these services might be written using
different programming languages and maybe using for idea of data storage technologies.
The definitions I'm showing you here are just a couple from a lot of other definitions which represent
for MicroServices.
So I don't really want to get into the world of what is a MicroService  and what is not a MicroServices
and how to define it and all that kind of stuff.
Let's get started with a few things which I really consider are important for MicroServices.
For me MicroServices are  basically services which are exposed by  REST in addition to that you have
small deployable units with very well thought out boundaries small well-chosen deployable units and
these should be cloud enabled.
For me the important parts are REST having small deployable units which can be cloud enabled.
Now what do I mean by these what do I mean by cloud enabled  how does it look for me when you build micro
services.
This is how it would look instead of building one big monolith you'd be building a set of smaller microservices
I'm showing five in the picture.
It might be 10 15 20 hundred or thousand.
It's a set of microservices with well defined boundaries which are interacting with each other and
these are cloud enabled.
That means I would be able to have multiple instances for each of these micro services for example we're
looking at the diagram of a production deployment for a set of microservices.
You can see that at that at this moment there are two instances of MicroService1 four instances
of MicroService1 and one instance of MicroService3 by cloud enabled I mean that if
there is more load on MicroService3 I should be able to easily bring up another  instance of
MicroService3.
This should not involve a lot of configuration I should be able to bring up an instance of MicroService3
or take down a instance of MicroService2 without having huge problems.
That is what I mean by cloud enabled.
So as far as this course is concerned we already looked at RESTful web services what we look at in the subsequent
sections in this course is how to cloud enable them how to set up an architecture such that it would be
able to dynamically adjust and be able to bring new instances up and take the older instances down.
In this step we kind of gave you a high level thousand feet picture of what we think about MicroServices is
in the next step will go one level deeper and look at the challenges that are associated with cloud enabling
your restful that services.